---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-13
published: true
labels:
  - E4
---

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-13
published: true
labels:
  - E4
---

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways: I’ve never had much experience creating functions but I learned a lot about them during assignment 1. They can be a headache to write at times, but it is really nice being able to 'reuse' code rather than having to hard code everything. It was also tricky learning how to use the correct scope for variables but I learned which ones to use and when.  

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills: I need to improve on writing better pseudo code, so that way I can have a better idea of how I would like my programs to be structured. I also need to improve my debugging skills, but because it is easier to use chat AI I kind of rely on that to help me with my programs. I would like to improve on time management as well, it would be better if I started working on assignments sooner. 

I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast: The WODs were helpful because it forced to me look at the code and actually understand. Rather than just going through the motions and creating a program, because if I didn’t have my code set up with informative comments, I would have taken a very long time to code and comprehend the assignments.  

The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence: The labs definitely covered a lot of material, it was interesting to see the jump from easy-ish assignments to the monster assignments at the end of the semester. I did not anticipate how difficult it would suddenly get and I felt a bit underprepared for assignment 1. I think the smartphone labs that required us to write code to make images ‘spin and hit’ was a bit more confusing rather than helpful. But overall I liked the labs. 

I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
Assignment 1 was really difficult, I wish we had more practice writing similar functions, but I learned a lot from assignment 1 and I am ready to start assignment 2. 

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways: I think if we could have assignments that don’t involve a trivial prompt like hits and spins it would be beneficial to everyone. At times it was more confusing to read some of the assignment requirements than to actually write the code. I think it would be more helpful if we had to write functions that are used in the real world.  

What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.): I think the labs and WODs were the most helpful. I learned a lot by going through assignments and troubleshooting.
